1) SSH Connection Issue:-

   Problem:- You're unable to SSH into your target hosts.
   Example:- When running an Ansible playbook, you encounter an SSH connection error.
   Troubleshooting:- Check your SSH configuration and try to manually SSH into the target host using the 
                     same credentials. Ensure that the target host's SSH server is running and reachable.

 2) Permission Denied Error:-

    Problem:- Ansible reports a "Permission denied" error.
    Example:- When running a playbook, you get a "Permission denied" error while trying to access a file on the target host.
    Troubleshooting:- Verify that the user running Ansible has the necessary permissions and, if required, use "sudo" to
                     elevate privileges.

 3) Host Unreachable:-

    Problem:- Ansible marks hosts as "UNREACHABLE."
    Example:- You run a playbook, and some hosts are reported as "UNREACHABLE."
    Troubleshooting:- Check network connectivity, firewall rules, DNS resolution, and SSH server status on the target hosts.

 4) Module Failure:-

    Problem:- A specific Ansible module is failing.
    Example:- The apt module reports an error while trying to install a package on a Debian-based system.
    Troubleshooting:- Review the module's documentation, check input parameters, and inspect the error message for details.
                      it may  indicate the package name is incorrect.

 5) Variable Mismatch:-

    Problem:- Playbook variables are not set correctly.
    Example:- A playbook variable isn't having the expected value.
    Troubleshooting:- Verify that variable names match between your playbook and inventory (or) variable files.

 6) Syntax Error:-

    Problem:- Playbooks or inventory files have syntax errors.
    Example:- An error message appears when running a playbook, indicating a YAML syntax error.
    Troubleshooting:- Review the error message, which usually includes line numbers, and fix the syntax issue. For example,
                      fixing indentation errors.

 7) Inventory Host Not Recognized:-

    Problem:- Hosts are not being recognized in the inventory.
    Example:- Ansible doesn't detect hosts from your inventory file.
    Troubleshooting:- Double-check the inventory file for correct formatting, and make sure it's in the right location. 
                     Verify that  hostnames (or) IP addresses are correctly defined.

 8) Performance Slowdown:-

    Problem:- Playbooks are running slowly.
    Example:- Your playbook takes a long time to execute.
    Troubleshooting:- Analyze the playbook for inefficiencies, consider limiting the use of "gather_facts", and use Ansible's
                     parallelism   options, like --forks, to speed up execution.

 9) Module Not Found:-

    Problem:- Ansible can't find a specific module.
    Example:- You get an error indicating that a module is missing.
    Troubleshooting:- Ensure that the module is installed on the target host, (or) check your "ansible.cfg" for the correct 
                     module paths.

 10) Task Ordering Issue:-

     Problem: Playbook tasks are running in the wrong order.
     Example: Tasks execute in an unexpected sequence.
     Troubleshooting: Review your playbook and ensure that tasks are correctly ordered. Use dependencies and notify to define
                       task dependencies.

11) trying to install a services using ansible playbook but not connecting to remote hosts

  *)  Inventory Configuration Issue:-

      Suppose you have an inventory file named dev.ini with the following content
             [web_servers]
          web1 ansible_host=192.168.1.100
          web2 ansible_host=192.168.1.101
    If you run an Ansible playbook but it's not connecting to your remote hosts, ensure that the inventory file is accessible
    and properly specified using the -i option:
     $ ansible-playbook -i dev.ini gk-playbook.yml

 *)  SSH Key Authentication Issue:-

   *)  If you are using SSH key authentication, make sure your SSH key is added to the SSH agent. If your "SSH key is id_rsa", 
       use the  following command to add it
        $ ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa

*)  Host Key Verification Issue:-

   *) If the remote host's SSH key fingerprint has changed, you'll need to update your known hosts. Use the following command 
      to remove the old entry and re-verify the host:
       $ ssh-keygen -R 192.168.1.100

*)  Firewall and Security Issue:-

  *) If you suspect a firewall issue, you may need to open the SSH port (default is 22) on your remote hosts. On Linux, you can 
     use  ufw to open the port:
      $ sudo ufw allow 22

*)  SSH Configuration Issue:-

   *) Check your SSH client configuration in your "~/.ssh/config file". Make sure there are no conflicting settings that might  
      effect Ansible's SSH connections.

 *)  Debugging Issue:-

   *) To enable verbose output for debugging, use the -vvv option when running your Ansible playbook:
         $ ansible-playbook -vvv your-playbook.yml    
   *) This will provide detailed information about the connection process and can help you identify the specific issue.

 *) DNS Resolution Issue:-

    Ensure that your control node can resolve the DNS names of the remote hosts. If DNS resolution is problematic, 
    use IP addresses in your inventory:
         [web_servers]
      web1 ansible_host=192.168.1.100
      web2 ansible_host=192.168.1.101

 *)  SELinux (or) AppArmor Issue:-

      On Linux, SELinux or AppArmor can sometimes interfere with SSH (or) Ansible. Check and adjust the security policies as
      needed.

12) Error Logs:-

   Tower server errors are logged in "/var/log/tower". Supervisors logs can be found in "/var/log/supervisor/." Apache web 
   server errors are logged in the httpd error log. Configure other Tower logging needs in "/etc/tower/conf.d/."

13)  Problems connecting to your host:-

    *) SSH Connection Issues:-

       Problem:- Ansible is unable to establish an SSH connection to the remote host.
       Solution:- Check the SSH configuration and connectivity.
                  Ensure that the remote host is accessible via SSH from your Ansible control machine.
                  Verify that SSH keys are correctly configured.
                  Use the ping module to test the SSH connection:

   *) Host Unreachable:-

      Problem:- Ansible reports that the host is unreachable.
      Solution:- Verify host connectivity and SSH settings.
                 Ensure that the host is reachable from your control machine and there are no firewall rules blocking
                 the connection.
                 Check the host's IP address or hostname in your Ansible inventory file.

  *)  SSH Key Authentication Issues:-

      Problem:- Ansible is failing to authenticate using SSH keys.
      Solution:- Check SSH key setup and permissions.
                 Verify that your SSH key is located in the correct directory on the control machine.
                 Ensure that the key file has the correct permissions (e.g., 600).
                 Use the $ ssh-add command to add your key to the SSH agent.

  *) assword Authentication Issues:-

      Problem:- Ansible is unable to authenticate using a password.
      Solution:- Verify password and SSH settings.
                Double-check the password in your Ansible playbook (or) inventory file.
                Make sure that password authentication is enabled on the remote host in SSHd configuration 
                (sshd_config).

  *)  Inventory Configuration Problems:-

       Problem:- Ansible cannot find or parse your inventory.
       Solution:- Check the inventory configuration.
                  Ensure your inventory file (e.g., hosts file) is correctly formatted and contains the target host.
                  Verify the path to your inventory file in the Ansible command (or) configuration.

  *)  Hostname Resolution:-

       Problem:- Hostname resolution fails.
       Solution:- Ensure DNS and hostname resolution are working.
                  Check that the hostname (or) IP address in your inventory file is correct.
                  Verify DNS resolution by using the ping command from your control machine to the target host.

  *) Privilege Escalation Issues:-

     Problem:- Ansible tasks require privilege escalation, and it's not configured correctly.
     Solution:- Set up privilege escalation correctly.
                Use the become and become_method options in your playbook to configure privilege escalation.
                Ensure the remote user has the necessary "sudo" (or) "su permissions".
                Let's take an example using an Ansible playbook that connects to a remote host and installs a package.

14) Problems running a playbook:-

    *) Incorrect Playbook (or) Inventory Paths:-

        Problem:- Ansible can't find the playbook (or) inventory file.
        Solution:- Verify the paths are correct.
                   Make sure your playbook file (gk_playbook.yml) and inventory file (prod_inventory.ini) are in
                   the specified location.
                   Use the "-i" option to specify the inventory file's location.
                     $ ansible-playbook -i /path/to/prod_inventory.ini /path/to/gk_playbook.yml

     *)  Syntax Errors in Playbook:-

        Problem:- Ansible reports syntax errors in your playbook.
        Solution:- Check your playbook for syntax errors.
                   Use ansible-playbook with the "--syntax-check" option to validate your playbook's syntax.
                      $ ansible-playbook --syntax-check gk_playbook.yml

     *)  Missing Roles (or) Dependencies:-

         Problem:- Your playbook uses roles or dependencies that are not installed.
         Solution:- Ensure roles and dependencies are installed.
                    Use ansible-galaxy to install roles. For example
                      $ ansible-galaxy install gk_role_name

    *) Permission Issues:-

        Problem:- Ansible fails due to permission issues.
        Solution:- Verify permissions.
                   Ensure that the user running Ansible has the necessary permissions to access and modify files on the
                   target system.

     *) Host Unreachable:-

        Problem:- Ansible reports that the host is unreachable.
        Solution:- Verify host connectivity and SSH settings.
                   Ensure that the host is reachable from your control machine and there are no firewall rules blocking
                   the connection.
                   Check the host's IP address (or) hostname in your Ansible inventory file.

    *) Misconfigured Variables (or) Parameters:-

       Problem:- Errors related to variables or playbook parameters.
       Solution:- Check variable names and parameter values.
                  Verify that variable names and parameters in your playbook are correctly spelled and defined.
                  Use the debug module to print variable values during playbook execution for debugging.

    *) Ansible Configuration Issues:-

       Problem:- Ansible uses the wrong configuration settings.
       Solution:- Check Ansible configuration.
                  Confirm that your Ansible configuration files "(ansible.cfg)" are correctly set, and the specified
                  values are appropriate for your environment.

    *) Network (or) DNS Issues:-

       Problem:- Network or DNS problems prevent Ansible from connecting to the target hosts.
       Solution:- Diagnose and resolve network issues.
                  Verify that your control machine can reach the target hosts through DNS or IP.
                  Check your network configuration, firewalls, and DNS settings.

15) Problems when running a job:-

    *) Incorrect Command Syntax:-

        Problem:- You are using incorrect syntax when running Ansible commands.
        Solution:- Verify the syntax of your command.
                  For example, to run a simple ansible command to execute a shell command on a target host,
                  use the following syntax
                    $ ansible -i inventory.ini -m shell -a "uptime" non_prod

    *)  Authentication and SSH Connection Issues:-

       Problem:- Ansible is unable to connect to the target host due to SSH (or) authentication issues.
       Solution:- Check SSH settings and authentication.
                  Verify that SSH keys (or) passwords are correctly configured.
                  Ensure that the target host is reachable via SSH.
                  For example, to test SSH connectivity with ansible, you can use the ping module
                   $ ansible -i inventory.ini -m ping non_prod

   *)  Host Unreachable:-

      Problem:- Ansible reports that the host is unreachable.
      Solution:- Verify host connectivity and SSH settings.
                 Check if the target host is accessible from your control machine and that no firewall rules are 
                 blocking the connection.
                 Confirm the hostname or IP address in your inventory.

   *)  Incorrect Inventory Configuration:-

       Problem:- Ansible cannot find the target host in the inventory.
       Solution:- Verify your inventory.
                  Check your inventory file "(inventory.ini)" for correct formatting and the presence of the target host.
                  Use the -i option to specify the inventory file
                    $ ansible -i /path/to/inventory.ini -m command -a "uptime" non_prod

   *) Privilege Escalation Issues:-

       Problem:- Privilege escalation is needed for certain tasks, and it's not configured correctly.
       Solution:- Set up privilege escalation correctly.
                  Use the "--become" and "--become-method" options in your command to configure privilege escalation.
                  Ensure the remote user has the necessary "sudo" (or) "su" permissions.
                  For example, to run a command with privilege escalation:
                    $ ansible -i inventory.ini -m shell -a "command" non_prod --become --become-method=sudo

   *) Inventory Hostname Resolution:-

       Problem:- Hostname resolution fails.
       Solution:- Ensure DNS and hostname resolution are working.
                  Verify that the hostname (or) IP address in your inventory is correct.
                  Test DNS resolution using the ping command from your control machine to the target host.

    *) Parameter Mismatch:-

       Problem:- Errors related to module parameters.
       Solution:- Check parameter names and values.
                  Verify that the parameter names and values in your command match the documentation for the module
                  you're using.
                for ex, when using the "apt module" to install a package:
                 $ ansible -i inventory.ini -m apt -a "name=nginx_package state=present" non_prod

   *) Ansible Configuration Issues:-

       Problem:- Ansible uses the wrong configuration settings.
       Solution:- Check your Ansible configuration.
                  Confirm that your Ansible configuration files "(ansible.cfg)" are correctly set and that the specified
                  values are suitable for your environment.
                  basic example of running an ansible command to execute a shell command on a remote host
                    $ ansible -i inventory.ini -m shell -a "uptime" non_prod


16) Playbook Stays in Pending:-

     When an Ansible playbook or job remains in a "Pending" state, it typically means Ansible is having difficulty 
     establishing a connection to the target hosts.

      *) SSH Connection Issues:-

          Problem:- Ansible cannot establish an SSH connection to the remote hosts.
          Solution:- Verify SSH configuration and connectivity.
                     Ensure your Ansible control machine can reach the remote hosts over SSH. 

      *)  Incorrect Hostnames (or) IPs in Inventory:-

          Problem:- The inventory file contains incorrect hostnames or IP addresses.
          Solution:- Verify the hostnames (or) IPs in your inventory file.
                     Check that the target hostnames (or) IP addresses are correctly listed in your Ansible 
                     inventory file.

      *)  SSH Key Authentication Issues:-

         Problem:- Ansible is failing to authenticate using SSH keys.
         Solution:- Check SSH key setup and permissions.
                    Make sure your SSH keys are correctly set up and located in the expected directory on your
                    control machine.
                    Ensure that the key file has the correct permissions (e.g., 600).

     *) Host Unreachable:-

       Problem:- Ansible reports that the hosts are unreachable.
       Solution:- Ensure host connectivity and SSH settings.
                  Confirm that the target hosts are accessible via SSH from your control machine.
                  Check if firewall rules are blocking the connection to the target hosts.

    *) Privilege Escalation Issues:-

       Problem:- Privilege escalation is needed but not configured correctly.
       Solution:- Set up privilege escalation correctly.
                  Use the "become" and "become_method" options in your playbook to configure privilege escalation.
                  Ensure that the remote user has the necessary "sudo" (or) "su" permissions.

    *) Ansible Configuration Issues:-

        Problem:- Ansible uses the wrong configuration settings.
        Solution:- Check Ansible configuration.
                   Confirm that your Ansible configuration files (ansible.cfg) are correctly set and the specified 
                   values are suitable for your environment.
